# My Article: The Undeniable Utility of CSS ':has'

https://www.joshwcomeau.com/css/has/?utm_source=tldrwebdev

This article talks about the use of the :has pseudo-class and how it helps conditionally style elements based on children elements (or even completely unrelated sibling elements!) without ever needing to use JS or React State––which may be helpful to know for our class since we're using raw HTML and CSS. I especially appreciate the way Josh breaks down his thinking for why he might use :has over :focus-within when he's talking about styling a parent component with multiple interactive children, and the careful consideration of the user's experience for not just for mouse-users, but also for keyboard-users as well. Some of the tradeoffs, however, are the relatively smaller degree of browser support for :has and :focus-within and, in my opinion, some code-readability issues and redundant hard-coding. But it's cool that you can manage logic like this all in your CSS!––it is daunting, though, to know that there are several ways of doing the same task (some with just CSS, some a combo of CSS/JS). How do you know that the way you've implemented something could've been simpler? How does CSS even work––in what cases can we simplify conditional rendering of things to be written in just our CSS and in what cases can we not? How do people figure this stuff out??

# Personal Comment

I found Josh W. Comeau’s article on the :has() CSS selector to be an exploration of one of the most exciting recent additions to CSS. The :has() pseudo-class, often referred to as a "parent selector," opens up new possibilities for styling elements based on their children or even siblings, something that was previously only achievable through JavaScript manipulation. This makes me feel like CSS is slowly being more then just a psuedo language. I also appreciate how the article illustrates real-world use cases for :has(), which really drives home its potential for simplifying complex UI patterns. Wilson Xu